FLATPAK(1)						       flatpak							   FLATPAK(1)

NAME
       flatpak - Build, install and run applications and runtimes

SYNOPSIS

       flatpak [OPTION...] {COMMAND}

DESCRIPTION
       Flatpak is a tool for managing applications and the runtimes they use. In the Flatpak model, applications can be built and
       distributed independently from the host system they are used on, and they are isolated from the host system ('sandboxed') to
       some degree, at runtime.

       Flatpak can operate in system-wide or per-user mode. The system-wide data (runtimes, applications and configuration) is
       located in $prefix/var/lib/flatpak/, and the per-user data is in $HOME/.local/share/flatpak/. Below these locations, there is
       a local repository in the repo/ subdirectory and installed runtimes and applications are in the corresponding runtime/ and
       app/ subdirectories.

       System-wide remotes can be statically preconfigured by dropping flatpakrepo(5) files into /usr/share/flatpak/remotes.d/ and
       /etc/flatpak/remotes.d/. If a file with the same name exists in both, the file under /etc will take precedence.

       In addition to the system-wide installation in $prefix/var/lib/flatpak/, which is always considered the default one unless
       overridden, more system-wide installations can be defined via configuration files in /etc/flatpak/installations.d/, which must
       define at least the id of the installation and the absolute path to it. Other optional parameters like DisplayName, Priority
       or StorageType are also supported.

       Flatpak uses OSTree to distribute and deploy data. The repositories it uses are OSTree repositories and can be manipulated
       with the ostree utility. Installed runtimes and applications are OSTree checkouts.

       Basic commands for building flatpaks such as build-init, build and build-finish are included in the flatpak utility. For
       higher-level build support, see the separate flatpak-builder(1) tool.

       Flatpak supports installing from sideload repos. These are partial copies of a repository (generated by flatpak create-usb)
       that are used as an installation source when offline (and online as a performance improvement). Such repositories are
       configured by creating symlinks to the sideload sources in the sideload-repos subdirectory of the installation directory (i.e.
       typically /var/lib/flatpak/sideload-repos or ~/.local/share/flatpak/sideload-repos). Additionally symlinks can be created in
       /run/flatpak/sideload-repos which is a better location for non-persistent sources (as it is cleared on reboot). These symlinks
       can point to either the directory given to flatpak create-usb which by default writes to the subpath .ostree/repo, or directly
       to an ostree repo.

OPTIONS
       The following global options are understood. Individual commands have their own options.

       -h, --help
	   Show help options and exit.

       -v, --verbose
	   Show debug information during command processing. Use -vv for more detail.

       --ostree-verbose
	   Show OSTree debug information during command processing.

       --version
	   Print version information and exit.

       --default-arch
	   Print the default arch and exit.

       --supported-arches
	   Print the supported arches in priority order and exit.

       --gl-drivers
	   Print the list of active gl drivers and exit.

       --installations
	   Print paths of system installations and exit.

       --print-system-only
	   When the flatpak --print-updated-env command is run, only print the environment for system flatpak installations, not
	   including the user’s home installation.

       --print-updated-env
	   Print the set of environment variables needed to use flatpaks, amending the current set of environment variables. This is
	   intended to be used in a systemd environment generator, and should not need to be run manually.

COMMANDS
       Commands for managing installed applications and runtimes:

       flatpak-install(1)
	   Install an application or a runtime from a remote or bundle.

       flatpak-update(1)
	   Update an installed application or runtime.

       flatpak-uninstall(1)
	   Uninstall an installed application or runtime.

       flatpak-mask(1)
	   Mask out updates and automatic installation.

       flatpak-pin(1)
	   Pin runtimes to prevent automatic removal.

       flatpak-list(1)
	   List installed applications and/or runtimes.

       flatpak-info(1)
	   Show information for an installed application or runtime.

       flatpak-history(1)
	   Show history.

       flatpak-config(1)
	   Manage flatpak configuration.

       flatpak-repair(1)
	   Repair flatpak installation.

       flatpak-create-usb(1)
	   Copy apps and/or runtimes onto removable media.

       Commands for finding applications and runtimes:

       flatpak-search(1)
	   Search for applications and runtimes.

       Commands for managing running applications:

       flatpak-run(1)
	   Run an application.

       flatpak-kill(1)
	   Stop a running application.

       flatpak-override(1)
	   Override permissions for an application.

       flatpak-make-current(1)
	   Specify the default version to run.

       flatpak-enter(1)
	   Enter the namespace of a running application.

       Commands for managing file access:

       flatpak-document-export(1)
	   Grant an application access to a specific file.

       flatpak-document-unexport(1)
	   Revoke access to a specific file.

       flatpak-document-info(1)
	   Show information about a specific file.

       flatpak-documents(1)
	   List exported files.

       Commands for managing the dynamic permission store:

       flatpak-permission-remove(1)
	   Remove item from permission store.

       flatpak-permissions(1)
	   List permissions.

       flatpak-permission-show(1)
	   Show app permissions.

       flatpak-permission-reset(1)
	   Reset app permissions.

       flatpak-permission-set(1)
	   Set app permissions.

       Commands for managing remote repositories:

       flatpak-remotes(1)
	   List all configured remote repositories.

       flatpak-remote-add(1)
	   Add a new remote repository.

       flatpak-remote-modify(1)
	   Modify properties of a configured remote repository.

       flatpak-remote-delete(1)
	   Delete a configured remote repository.

       flatpak-remote-ls(1)
	   List contents of a configured remote repository.

       flatpak-remote-info(1)
	   Show information about a ref in a configured remote repository.

       Commands for building applications:

       flatpak-build-init(1)
	   Initialize a build directory.

       flatpak-build(1)
	   Run a build command in a build directory.

       flatpak-build-finish(1)
	   Finalizes a build directory for export.

       flatpak-build-export(1)
	   Export a build directory to a repository.

       flatpak-build-bundle(1)
	   Create a bundle file from a ref in a local repository.

       flatpak-build-import-bundle(1)
	   Import a file bundle into a local repository.

       flatpak-build-sign(1)
	   Sign an application or runtime after its been exported.

       flatpak-build-update-repo(1)
	   Update the summary file in a repository.

       flatpak-build-commit-from(1)
	   Create a new commit based on an existing ref.

       flatpak-repo(1)
	   Print information about a repo.

       Commands available inside the sandbox:

       flatpak-spawn(1)
	   Run a command in another sandbox.

FILE FORMATS
       File formats that are used by Flatpak commands:

       flatpakref(5)
	   Reference to a remote for an application or runtime

       flatpakrepo(5)
	   Reference to a remote

       flatpak-remote(5)
	   Configuration for a remote

       flatpak-installation(5)
	   Configuration for an installation location

       flatpak-metadata(5)
	   Information about an application or runtime

ENVIRONMENT
       Besides standard environment variables such as XDG_DATA_DIRS and XDG_DATA_HOME, flatpak is consulting some of its own.

       FLATPAK_FANCY_OUTPUT
	   May be set to 0 to avoid fancy formatting when outputting to a terminal. This feature is also disabled automatically when
	   standard output is not a terminal, or when G_MESSAGES_DEBUG is set.

       FLATPAK_TTY_PROGRESS
	   May be set to 1 to enable reporting machine-readable progress to the terminal. This feature is not currently enabled by
	   default because it uses the OSC 9;4 sequence, which some terminal emulators interpret as a popup notification.

       FLATPAK_USER_DIR
	   The location of the per-user installation. If this is not set, $XDG_DATA_HOME/flatpak is used.

       FLATPAK_SYSTEM_DIR
	   The location of the default system-wide installation. If this is not set, /var/lib/flatpak is used (unless overridden at
	   build time by --localstatedir or --with-system-install-dir).

       FLATPAK_SYSTEM_CACHE_DIR
	   The location where temporary child repositories will be created during pulls into the system-wide installation. If this is
	   not set, a directory in /var/tmp/ is used. This is useful because it is more likely to be on the same filesystem as the
	   system repository (thus increasing the chances for e.g. reflink copying), and we can avoid filling the user's home
	   directory with temporary data.

       FLATPAK_CONFIG_DIR
	   The location of flatpak site configuration. If this is not set, /etc/flatpak is used (unless overridden at build time by
	   --sysconfdir).

       FLATPAK_RUN_DIR
	   The location of flatpak runtime global files. If this is not set, /run/flatpak is used.

SEE ALSO
       ostree(1), ostree.repo(5), flatpak-remote(5), flatpak-installation(5), https://www.flatpak.org

flatpak															   FLATPAK(1)
