PARTED(8)							    GNU Parted Manual							       PARTED(8)

NAME
       parted - a partition manipulation program

SYNOPSIS
       parted [options] [device [command [options...]...]]

DESCRIPTION
       parted  is  a  program  to manipulate disk partitions.  It supports multiple partition table formats, including MS-DOS and GPT.	It is useful for
       creating space for new operating systems, reorganising disk usage, and copying data to new hard disks.

       This manual page documents parted briefly.  Complete documentation is distributed with the package in GNU Info format.

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
	      displays a help message

       -l, --list
	      lists partition layout on all block devices

       -m, --machine
	      displays machine parseable output

       -j, --json
	      displays JSON output

       -s, --script
	      never prompts for user intervention

       -f, --fix
	      automatically answer "fix" to exceptions in script mode

       -v, --version
	      displays the version

       -a alignment-type, --align alignment-type
	      Set alignment for newly created partitions, valid alignment types are:

	      none   Use the minimum alignment allowed by the disk type.

	      cylinder
		     Align partitions to cylinders.

	      minimal
		     Use minimum alignment as given by the disk topology information. This and the opt value will use layout information provided by the
		     disk to align the logical partition table addresses to actual physical blocks on the disks.  The min value is the minimum alignment
		     needed to align the partition properly to physical blocks, which avoids performance degradation.

	      optimal
		     Use optimum alignment as given by the disk topology information. This aligns to a multiple of the physical block size in a way that
		     guarantees optimal performance.

COMMANDS
       [device]
	      The block device to be used.  When none is given, parted will use the first block device it finds.

       [command [options]]
	      Specifies the command to be executed.  If no command is given, parted will present a command prompt.  Possible commands are:

	      help [command]
		     Print general help, or help on command if specified.

	      align-check type partition
		     Check if partition satisfies the alignment constraint of type.  type must be "minimal" or "optimal".

	      mklabel label-type
		     Create a new disklabel (partition table) of label-type.  label-type should be one of "aix", "amiga", "bsd", "dvh",	 "gpt",	 "loop",
		     "mac", "msdos", "pc98", or "sun".

	      mkpart [part-type name fs-type] start end
		     Create  a new partition. part-type may be specified only with msdos and dvh partition tables, it should be one of "primary", "logi‐
		     cal", or "extended".  name is required for GPT partition tables and fs-type is optional.  fs-type can be one  of  "btrfs",	 "ext2",
		     "ext3", "ext4", "fat16", "fat32", "hfs", "hfs+", "linux-swap", "ntfs", "reiserfs", "udf", or "xfs".

	      name partition name
		     Set  the  name  of	 partition  to	name.  This option works only on Mac, PC98, and GPT disklabels. The name can be placed in double
		     quotes, if necessary.  And depending on the shell may need to also be wrapped in single quotes so that the shell doesn't strip  off
		     the double quotes.

	      print print-type
		     Display the partition table.  print-type is optional, and can be one of devices, free, list, or all.

	      quit   Exit from parted.

	      rescue start end
		     Rescue  a lost partition that was located somewhere between start and end.	 If a partition is found, parted will ask if you want to
		     create an entry for it in the partition table.

	      resizepart partition end
		     Change the end position of partition.  Note that this does not modify any filesystem present in the partition.

	      rm partition
		     Delete partition.

	      select device
		     Choose device as the current device to edit. device should usually be a Linux hard disk device, but it can be a partition, software
		     raid device, or an LVM logical volume if necessary.

	      set partition flag state
		     Change the state of the flag on partition to state.  Supported flags are: "boot", "root", "swap", "hidden", "raid",  "lvm",  "lba",
		     "legacy_boot",  "irst",  "msftres",  "esp",  "chromeos_kernel",  "bls_boot", "linux-home", "no_automount", "bios_grub", and "palo".
		     state should be either "on" or "off".

	      unit unit
		     Set unit as the unit to use when displaying locations and sizes, and for interpreting those given by the  user  when  not	suffixed
		     with  an  explicit	 unit.	 unit  can be one of "s" (sectors), "B" (bytes), "kB", "MB", "KiB", "MiB", "GB", "GiB", "TB", "TiB", "%"
		     (percentage of device size), "cyl" (cylinders), "chs" (cylinders, heads, sectors), or "compact" (megabytes for input, and a  human-
		     friendly form for output).

	      toggle partition flag
		     Toggle the state of flag on partition.

	      type partition id or uuid
		     On	 MS-DOS	 set the type aka. partition id of partition to id. The id is a value between "0x01" and "0xff". On GPT the type-uuid of
		     partition to uuid.

	      disk_set flag state
		     Change a flag on the disk to state. A flag can be either "on" or "off".  Some or all of these flags will be available, depending on
		     what disk label you are using.  Supported flags are: "pmbr_boot" on GPT to enable the boot flag on the GPT's protective MBR  parti‐
		     tion.

	      disk_toggle flag
		     Toggle the state of the disk flag.

	      version
		     Display version information and a copyright message.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <bug-parted@gnu.org>

SEE ALSO
       fdisk(8), mkfs(8), The parted program is fully documented in the info(1) format GNU partitioning software manual.

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Timshel Knoll <timshel@debian.org>, for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).

parted								    2021 September 28							       PARTED(8)
